# Black and Brown Communities

{% hint style="danger" %}
**Relationships and Networks:** Within many communities, there are different dynamics to social networks and how information is transmitted and trusted. Each community is diverse and the key is identifying key influencers or influencing relationships in the community that will amplify your digital communication strategy. 
{% endhint %}

That can be representing that **key influencer** in your content or as part of your dissemination and outreach campaigns. This is especially key considering recent research that shows that adults in Black and Latino communities are less likely to know someone or personally have received at least one dose of the vaccine, yet also most likely to want to see how the vaccine is working for other people they know \(Hamel et al., 2021\). Getting more **testimonials** out there digitally with far reach will increase relationship-based transmission of health behaviors while leveraging the scale of digital media to reach audiences that the testimonial might resonate with beyond someone’s local network.

### **Tips & Considerations**

* **Racism is a risk factor** for COVID, not race. If discussing race and COVID vaccinations, Be clear on your intent. You need to be specific as to how the two relate \(racism and systemic inequalities and vaccine availability/uptake/trust\) and what action items your message is thus trying to call into action. 
* **Don’t assume a shared identity in your content outreach strategy.** So many communities are part of the Black+ Community, as such it’s key to recognize the potential for reductionist behavior in assuming one identity that is shared across these communities.

  * About 50% of Hispanic adults say they most often describe themselves by their **family’s country of origin** or heritage, using terms such as Mexican, Cuban, Puerto Rican or Salvadoran.. \(Gonzalez-Barrera, 2020\)
  * About three-quarters of black adults say that **being black** is extremely \(52%\) or very \(22%\) important to how they think about themselves; by comparison, about six-in-ten Hispanic \(59%\) and 56% of Asian adults say being Hispanic or Asian, respectively, is extremely or very important to their identity \(Menasce Horowitz et al., 2019\)

* **Avoid assumptions of homogeneity in linguistic preferences.** There is significant linguistic diversity in America’s Black and Brown Communities, your communication strategy needs to take this into account and not center your outreach strategy on language alone. **Speaking Spanish** seen as a key part of Hispanic identity, use this to consider how to reach this population. \(For U.S. Hispanics, Speaking Spanish Is the Most Important Part of Hispanic Identity across Immigrant Generations, 2020\) 

* **Leverage seamless bilingual content strategy.** Many individuals use multiple languages interchangeably in their day-to-day or have specific language preferences depending on the modality \(written versus spoken\). Others speak only English but culturally identify with linguistic norms within their own communities. In communications it’s important to think creatively beyond word-for-word translations in order to reach these dynamic language audiences. \(See “Transcreation Tips” section\).
* **Trust & Agency are key values to consider in healthcare communication with these communities.** We need to earn trust and recognize the imperative to give people the agency over their own selves and the self-efficacy to provide for their own wellbeing. The decision is ultimately theirs. These values should be reflected in word choices and imagery in all health communication outreach. Trust in state governments may defer by age group. In recent research it was shown that younger Latino adults are less trusting than their older generations of government as a source of information about the COVID-19 vaccine. Their confidence was highest from their own healthcare provider \(Kearney et al., 2021\).
* Acknowledge valid concerns regarding vaccine safety.  Given the historical context of medical misconduct towards black and brown communities, there are generational impacts to the trust the medical community has not earned back. Recognizing this history of inequities and social justice issues, and the lower rates of clinical trials participation from these racial groups, we need to address concerns with humility while also reassuring them of vaccine safety and efficacy in this case. 
* Present clear information on side effects versus safety issues. Highlight the differences between expected brief reactions to the vaccine versus critical safety issue. Fact to highlight might be that of those who have been vaccinated, 45% had minor side effects, 7 percent moderate, and none severe \(COVID Collaborative, 2021\).
* Leverage imagery that resonates and is diverse. Stock images are often quite saturated and are entrenched in institutional biases, consider looking locally to higher photographers in the community you’re trying to reach and put forward images that inspire and connect with your constituency. This includes diverse images of people, and scenery that is localized and represents your communities surroundings best \(urban v. rural, local communities and diversity, local fashion choices, etc\). 
* Ask community culture brokers to help spread the word and serve as a mediator. Build relationships with trusted messengers from diverse organizations and community groups. Finding individuals in the local community that have been vaccinated to build trust and to widen the net of those who know someone who have had successful experiences with vaccination \(use of video, written, media testimonials\)
  * Work closely with the IHS to work with them on outreach communication in the Tribal Nations.
  * Identify local channels for community health \(e.g., Promotoras\) and ask for their participation in a video testimonial, news segment, social media campaign, so on.
  * Leverage local religious institutions to reinforce vaccine availability information and services. Again, ask for their participation in local campaigns and content design.
* Recognize concerns on immigration status/documentation. Acknowledgement of one’s concern for safety is key to also sharing messages of vaccine availability and access. Offer [resources like this one to inform them on Immigrant Rights](https://www.immigrantdefenseproject.org/ice-home-and-community-arrests/#unique). If possible assure them that healthcare providers are not legally obligated to report nor document immigration status at point of care.
* Recognize barriers, offer a solution. Some individuals, particularly those who are still independent, may have perceived transportation inconvenience \(lack of access\) or financial concerns. Acknowledge perceived barriers and highlight solutions in your messaging \(e.g., clarity on cost of vaccine and clarify there are no hidden costs by healthcare providers; help them locate facilities near public transportation options\).
* Utilize media outlets that resonate within communities. 11% of surveyed Latinos in a recent study by Nielson reported Social Media as their trusted source of information on coronavirus as compared to 10% for government websites \(Nielson, 2021\). 
* Consider modalities that resonate within certain communities. Extant research has shown efficacy in leveraging telenovela/fotonovela style communication in Latino communities. See below for an example. 

